Palette Go SDK (#3577)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/automation/palette-sdk/list-clusters-sdk.md

---
sidebar_label: "List Clusters with Palette Go SDK"
title: "List Clusters with Palette Go SDK"
description: "Learn how to use the Palette GO SDK to list your Palette host clusters."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["palette-sdk", "go"]
---

The Palette Go Software Developer Toolkit (SDK) enables Go developers to interact with Palette services. This guide
explains how to install and use the SDK to list the active host clusters in your Palette environment.

## Prerequisites

- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) version 1.22.5 or later.

- A Palette account with [Tenant Admin](../../tenant-settings/tenant-settings.md) access.

- A Palette API key. Refer to the [Create API Key](../../user-management/authentication/api-key/create-api-key.md) page
  for instructions on how to create an API key.

## List Palette Clusters

> 1.  Open a terminal window and create a folder to store your Go source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Open a terminal window and create a folder for you Go repository.
```

    ```bash
    mkdir sdk-example
    ```

2.  Navigate to the created folder.

    ```bash
    cd sdk-example
    ```

> 3.  Enable dependency tracking for your code by issuing the following command. This will create a `go.mod` file in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Initialize your Go module and enable dependency tracking for your code by issuing the following command. This will create a `go.mod` file in the
```

    current folder.

    ```bash
    go mod init example/list-clusters
    ```

4.  Download the required Palette SDK modules. The command below retrieves the modules and records their dependencies in
    the `go.mod` file.

    ```bash
    go get github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/api/models
    go get github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/client
    ```

> 5.  Create a file named `list-clusters.go` to store your Go application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  Create a source file named `main.go`.
```

        ```bash

>         touch list-clusters.go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        touch main.go
```

        ```

> 6.  Open the `list-clusters.go` file in a text editor of your choice and paste the content below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.  Open the `main.go` file in a text editor of your choice and paste the content below.
```

    ```go
    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        "os"
        "github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/api/models"
        "github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/client"
    )

    func main() {
        var host, apiKey, projectUid, scope string

        // Parse command line arguments

        numArgs := len(os.Args)
        if numArgs < 3 || numArgs > 4 {
            fmt.Println("Usage: main <host> <apiKey> [projectUid]")
            os.Exit(1)
        }
        switch numArgs {
        case 3:
            host, apiKey = os.Args[1], os.Args[2]
            scope = "tenant"
        case 4:
            host, apiKey, projectUid = os.Args[1], os.Args[2], os.Args[3]
            scope = "project"

>         }

Author: Hello there @karl-cardenas-coding 😄 I was using the same example provided by Tyler's team (which is available on the client documentation), and I wanted to match what we have in the client repos. What do you think?

>         }

Author: > We are assuming that people will use the SDK as a CLI. We don't really need this code and can do without it. What we really care about is them setting the environment variables.

Hello there @karl-cardenas-coding 😄 I was using the same example provided by Tyler's team (which is available on the client documentation), and I wanted to match what we have in the client repos. What do you think?

>         }

Author: @karl-cardenas-coding We will talk to Tyler and refactor this code together with the official example in a separate PR/ticket.

>         }

Reviewer 2: We don't need to match their @caroldelwing README example. Let's do our thing. It's our Docs 😉

>         }

Author: Sounds good :tada: will include the changes!

>         // Initialize a Palette client

Reviewer 2: Use `os.getenv`. to get the ENV variables with the credentials and Palette URI.  That's the more idiomatic pattern in Go.

https://pkg.go.dev/os#Getenv

Reviewer 3: I'd be happy to update the example in the SDK repo to use env vars. Agreed with @caroldelwing that they should be consistent.

      all projects.

    - Initializes a Palette client using the provided host URL and Palette API key.

    - Searches for Palette clusters within the specified scope (tenant-wide or project-specific).

    - Displays the active clusters with details such as name, cloud type, and associated project.

    After pasting the content, save and exit the file.

7.  Export your Palette host URL and API key as environment variables. Replace `<your-palette-host-url>` with your
    Palette URL, such as `console.spectrocloud.com`, and `<your-palette-api-key>` with your API key.

    ```bash
    export apiKey=<your-palette-api-key>
    export host=<your-palette-host-url>
    ```

8.  Issue the following command to execute the application.

    ```bash
    go run . $host $apiKey
    ```

    The application will print the active clusters in your Palette environment.

    ```text hideClipboard
    Searching for Palette clusters with tenant scope...

    Found 1 cluster(s):

    Name: aws-cluster
    Cloud Type: aws
    Project: Default
    ```

## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, click **Clusters**.

> 3. Verify that the clusters printed by the `list-clusters.go` application are also visible in the Palette UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify that the clusters printed by the Go client application are also visible in the Palette UI.
```

## List Palette Clusters

1.  Open a terminal window and create a folder for you Go repository.

    ```bash
    mkdir sdk-example
    ```

2.  Navigate to the created folder.

    ```bash
    cd sdk-example
    ```

3.  Initialize your Go module and enable dependency tracking for your code by issuing the following command. This will
    create a `go.mod` file in the current folder.

    ```bash
    go mod init example/list-clusters
    ```

4.  Download the required Palette SDK modules. The command below retrieves the modules and records their dependencies in
    the `go.mod` file.

    ```bash
    go get github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/api/models
    go get github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/client
    ```

5.  Create a source file named `main.go`.

    ```bash
    touch main.go
    ```

6.  Open the `main.go` file in a text editor of your choice and paste the content below.

    ```go
    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        "os"

        "github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/api/models"
        "github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/client"
    )

    func main() {

        // Read environment variables

>         host := os.Getenv("host")

Reviewer 3: Please update this section to match https://github.com/spectrocloud/palette-sdk-go/pull/124.

Environment variables should be ALL CAPS. Also, adding the "PALETTE_" prefix is a bit more safe / less likely to clash with other systems, since "host" is quite generic.

Author: Oh, yes :) done!
